--- 
title: Home 
footer_img: imgs/porch_reader.jpg
---

Currently a C.V. Starr Fellow, Princeton Neuroscience Institute

Starting in 2018, I'll be Asst. Professor of Psychology, Rutgers New
Brunswick

Formerly I was a PhD student at the University of Rochester in the
Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, where I was affiliated with
the **[Human Language Processing
Lab](http://www.hlp.rochester.edu/)** and the **[Raizada
Lab](http://raizadalab.org/)**

I work on **sensation and perception in a non-stationary world**. My
work uses behavioral, computational, and neural approaches to understand
how sensory systems **adapt** to semi-predictable variability across
contexts. I am particularly---but not exclusively---interested in **speech
and language**.

Resources
---------

Take your data to go as an R package: [tutorial](r-packages/) and [git
repository](https://github.com/kleinschmidt/r-packages)

Data and analysis for a phonetic adaptation experiment: [R
package](https://github.com/kleinschmidt/phonetic-sup-unsup)

Running phonetics experiments online:
[demo](https://www.hlp.rochester.edu/mturk/mtadapt-demo/) and [source
code](https://bitbucket.org/dkleinschmidt/mtadapt-demo)

Simulating false positive rates and power for mixed models: slides as
[pdf](sst-mixed-effects-simulation/simulations_slides.pdf) or [source
code](https://github.com/kleinschmidt/sst-mixed-effects-simulation).

Intro to literate programming in R with
[knitr](http://yihui.name/knitr/): [lab wiki
page](http://wiki.bcs.rochester.edu/HlpLab/LabmeetingSP13w13)

Using [plyr](http://plyr.had.co.nz/) for data analysis etc.: slides as
[pdf](plyr-reshape-lsa2013-slides/lsa13-plyr-reshape.pdf) or [knitr
source](plyr-reshape-lsa2013-slides/lsa13-plyr-reshape.Rnw)

