--- 
title: Play 
footer_img: imgs/fixie2.jpg 
---

I like making things
--------------------

Open-source projects I've contributed to include
[JuliaStats](https://github.com/JuliaStats/),
[Gadfly](https://github.com/dcjones/Gadfly.jl) (ggplot-style
visualization for Julia), [FAAV](https://github.com/JoFrhwld/FAAV) (now
[FAVE](https://github.com/JoFrhwld/FAVE)),
[latexdiff](https://github.com/ftilmann/latexdiff/), and, most
importantly, [lolcommits](https://github.com/mroth/lolcommits).

I ride bikes (even, yes, through the Rochester winter). My [commuter
bike](http://www.flickr.com/photos/dklein/5238069139/) is a fixie I
built up on a beater 10-speed Fuji frame with some pretty ostentatious
red deep-v wheels, and when I feel like wrapping myself in spandex I
have a [1993 Bianchi
Campione](http://www.flickr.com/photos/dklein/4917028821/), which sports
a fabulously 90s purple-and-black paint job.

I like to cook, and especially to bake. I also have a voracious sweet
tooth, which is a dangerous combination. I love coffee and I love beer.

Speaking of which, I [make
beer](http://www.flickr.com/photos/dklein/sets/72157631977977079/), and
keep track of my recipes [here](https://www.brewtoad.com/users/15935). I
also have a manual espresso machine from the 70's that I ~~refurbished
and [still can't make a decent shot
on](http://www.flickr.com/photos/dklein/8173954507/in/set-72157631978802462)~~
~~possibly destroyed by shorting the heating element. You win some, you
lose some.~~ use nearly every day.

I'm the co-PI of the [HOP
Lab](http://www.chigusakurumada.com/hop-lab-blog/).

I'm a knitter, and I think that wool is probably one of the most perfect
materials in existence.

Popular dependent measures of me include time-to-whiteboard-use,
maximum-audible-laughter-distance, and beard-to-hair-ratio.
